+++
title = "Incorporating travel and other microenvironments into population-level exposure estimates"
date = 2018-03-07T17:30:00+01:00  # Schedule page publish date.
draft = false

# Talk start and end times.
#   End time can optionally be hidden by prefixing the line with `#`.
time_start = 2015-11-03
#time_end = 2018-03-09T18:00:00+01:00

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Studies using epidemiological methods find health issues linked to air pollution including respiratory problems, cardio-vascular issues and cancer. Exposure to pollutants is typically assigned using annual average values at a course spatial scale e.g. area of residence (‘static’ method). However pollutant concentrations vary daily and hourly. Also subjects spend much of their time away from the home. Our primary objective was to use a large Transport for London dataset to model people’s movements and produce more detailed exposure estimates on an individual and population-wide level. We processed origin and destination journey data using routing APIs to recreate subjects’ days over 24 hours on a minute-by-minute basis (timestamp, latitude, longitude, and microenvironment). We combined this with a UK-wide 20m x 20m CMAQ-Urban model of weekday/Saturday/Sunday diurnal profiles of PM2.5 and NOX concentrations. We linked each subject to pollutant concentrations using their location and the time, and then we used mass-balance equations and indoor/outdoor ratios to model individuals’ microenvironments. Using the LHEM average exposure is found to be 37% and 61% lower than when using address-point estimates, for PM2.5 and NOX (NO+NO2), respectively. The distribution of PM2.5 exposures from the LHEM is larger than the equivalent exposure at the residential address (6.02 µg m3 to 32.24 µg m3 for LHEM compared to 11.16 µg m3 to 20.01 µg m3 for address-point). However for NOX the distribution is smaller (4.93 µg m3 to 136.26 µg m3 for LHEM compared to 20.09 µg m3 to 180.51 µg m3 for address-point). The LHEM suggests that air quality epidemiological studies that do not include population movements and micro-environmental modelling may be assigning exposure incorrectly. Using this model we can now better understand and quantify the complexity of exposure in the urban environment."
abstract_short = ""

# Name of event and optional event URL.
event = "ISEE Europe 2015"
event_url = "https://www.uu.nl/en/events/isee-europe-young-2015"

# Location of event.
location = "Utrecht University (Utrecht, Holland)"

# Is this a selected talk? (true/false)
selected = true

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this talk with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#projects = ["traffic-pollution-and-health"]

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["exposure", "air pollution", "PM2.5", "London"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_code = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = false

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = "pollutant_correlation.jpg"
caption = "LHEM pollutant correlation"

+++
